# SmartContracts_usingWeb3.js-Infura
This is Exercise 15 in MI4 of Kingsland Universities Blockchain Developer Program

# Overview
Web3.js is a collection of libraries which allow you to interact with a local or remote Ethereum node using an HTTP
or IPC connection. In this exercise, we will use web3.js to deploy a contract on the Ethereum Ropsten testnet and
play with it. We will first compile a contract, deploy it and finally call some of the contract’s functions. In order for
web3 to connect to the Ropsten testnet, we will use Infura.io API as our provider.

# Goals
• Using Web3.js, interface with Ethereum’s Ropsten Network via Infura.io.
• Using Web3.js, call smart contract methods.

# Prerequisites
• NodeJS v16.15.0
• NPM v7.19.1
• Solc v0.8.13
• Web3 v3.0.0-rc.5

# Problem 1. Dependency Installation

To start with, create a new project on your preferred directory.
In the directory, open a terminal and initialize a NodeJS project:
  
    npm init –y

After that, install solc-js:

    npm install solc@0.8.13

Last but not least, web3.js:

    npm install web3@3.0.0-rc.5

## Problem 1. Dependency Installation

To start with, create a new project on your preferred directory.
In the directory, open a terminal and initialize a NodeJS project:

    npm init –y
    
After that, install solc-js:

    npm install solc@0.8.13
    
Last but not least, web3.js:

    npm install web3@3.0.0-rc.5

## Problem 3. Compiling the Smart Contract

The Smart Contract object is a meta-class. What this means is that functions in it are not defined until it is
instantiated with an application binary interface (ABI) which is usually generated by a compiler, such as the Solidity
compiler solc is used to generate JavaScript bindings for the Solidity compiler.
Now, implement an ArrayOfFacts smart contract which stores a string array of facts in the blockchain. Only the
owner of the contract can add facts, but anyone can count how many facts there are and get a fact by index.

Now that the smart contract has been implemented, go back to app.js. Read the contract and store it in a variable.

Compile the contract.
Implement the **standardCompilerInput** which contains compilation instructions for the colc compiler. 
Then, compile the contract via solc.compile)_ and access the object that we are interested in.

Open a terminal on your project folder and run the following command, then examine the output.

    node app.js
    
## 1. Deploy a Smart Contract

Now that we have compiled our ArrayOfFacts.sol smart contract, it is time to deploy it on the Ropsten Testnet.
Retrieve one private key from MetaMask and use it as a signer for the deployment transaction. This account will also
be the contract owner.

If you do not have ETH, use the Goerli faucet: https://goerlifaucet.com/
Export the private key (DO NOT USE an account that holds actual mainnet ETH):

Save the exported privateKey in your app.js file. Don’t forget to prefix the copied key with 0x.

To deploy a contract to the Ethereum Network, two things are required:

• The contract’s bytecode
• The contract’s application binary interface (ABI)
Both are generated from the Solidity compilation process. We already have this from an earlier step and this is
stored on our compiledContract variable.
Import the account in web3 using the private key we got from an earlier step (see Line 37).
Then, use web3.eth.Contract(jsonInterface [, address] [, options]), which will initialize a contract with all its
methods defined in the json interface object.
Since this is a deployment operation, we do not have an existing contract address of an already deployed contract to
interact with yet. Leave this parameter as null.
Then, add the following as additional options:
• data – the bytecode of the contract,
• gas – the maximum gas provided for a transaction (gas limit)
• from – the address from which the transaction should be made.
Finally, call the initialized contract’s deploy() function.
If everything goes well, the promise resolves with a new contract instance and sends the transaction. When the
deployment is successful, that means the transaction is mined. The callback function will print the contract address:

Run app.js and you’ll get the deployed contract address.

Verify that the contract has indeed been deployed at the Goerli Test Network by visiting:
https://goerli.etherscan.io/address/REPLACE-THIS WITH YOUR-DEPLOYED-CONTRACT-ADDRESS

If for some reason the transaction takes longer than expected, you may receive an error message. But your contract
is still deployed and you can find it by following the address from which you deployed it in Ropsten explorer.

## 2. Playing with the Smart Contract: Adding Facts

Now that the Smart Contract is deployed, we will connect to it using **web3** to add facts to our contract.
For ease of use, reuse **app.js**, but **remove the deploy code** and assign the contract address to a variable.

Invoke the **add()** method of the Smart Contract. First, initialize the contract instance. Since the contract is now
deployed, we need the **ABI** and the **contract address**.

Run **app.js**

The status shows whether the addFact() transaction was successful or not.
Copy the transactionHash and examine the transaction more in in Etherscan:

https://ropsten.etherscan.io/tx/REPLACE-THIS-WITH-YOUR-TRANSACTION-HASH

Page 14 of 17 https://www.kingslanduniversity.com

Great! Now you have interacted with the smart contract and added a new fact.

Now...
What will happen if the **someone who is not the contract owner** tries to **add()** a fact to the contract?
Get another address, which has any ETH, export the private key, and execute the **add()** method.

Change this part with the **new** private key:

Run **app.js**

We expect this transaction to fail as it was executed using a non-owner account.
The transaction has been reverted and we see that the **status** flag is false to indicate that this transaction did not
succeed. Take a look at Etherscan to see more transaction details:

    *https://goerli.etherscan.io/tx/REPLACE-THIS-WITH-YOUR-TRANSACTION-HASH*

## 3. Playing with the Smart Contract: Retrieving Information

Implement the interaction which calls the contract’s **getFact(uint256 index)** and **count()** functions.
Keep in mind that when you want to **GET** something from a contract, you **do not need** a wallet! Therefore, only the
**ABI** and contract address are needed. *(See Line 60)*.
Since you do not need a wallet to retrieve information, this also means that retrieving information from a contract is
**free**.
Comment out the previous **addFact()** code and add this one below:

    const factIndex = 0;
    contract.methods.getFact(factIndex).call().then((result) => {
      console.log(`Fact ${Fact ${factIndex}: #{result}`)
    })
    
    contract.methods.count().call().then((result) => {
    console.log(`Total recorded facts: ${result}`)
    })
    
    

When you run __node app.js__ in the terminal you should receive two object's inside the terminal's output. IThe terminal should look similar to something like this:

__Fact 0:__ "Data in a string format"
__Total recorded facts:__ "Numeric data"

### Congratulations! You've completed the exercise!!!
   
